These are very practical comments, and they all tie in well with what the Apostle Paul was trying to tell
those in the Ephesian congregation about
Examining themselves the same way we have to do today
Examining ourselves so that we please Jehovah if you'd like please open up to Ephesians chapter 5 and we'll read verse 10
Which is our theme scripture?
Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 10
It says keep on making sure of what is acceptable to the Lord and
And then it goes on in verse 11 and
Stop sharing in the unfruitful works that belong to the darkness rather
Expose them for what they are
So it's very clear to us in this chapter of Ephesians chapter 5
That there are things that Jehovah views as acceptable and he views as
unacceptable
Jehovah's standard of what is unacceptable is
Is outlined in quite a few of the verses in chapter 5 here if you would just scan through
Verse 3 4 and 5 we'll see that unwholesome talk about sex shameful conduct
Obsying and gesting and then verse 18
Drunkenness. Well, these are things that will bar us from God's kingdom
When you think about entertainment today
It's merely impossible to try to find something that is acceptable
To Jehovah that does not have immoral sex
pornography
spiritism and violence
Satan has thoroughly saturated all forms of the media
So thoroughly that it's in our literature and movies. It's in electronic games or
Everything that we can think of Satan has infiltrated
Yes, he knows that Jehovah hates these things and
He doesn't mind if part of our heart hates these things as long as part of our heart
Loves these things. So we do well to ask ourselves
Does the entertainment that I choose does it help me in my being acceptable to Jehovah?
Does it help me to
Have the qualities that the Jehovah endures in us and will draw closer to us?
Well the spirit of the world reflects rebellion of the Bible which outlines Jehovah's qualities and his standards
We want to show respect for the Bible which teaches us to love what Jehovah loves and hate what he hates
And what will help us to do this and resist the spirit of the world and draw closer to Jehovah and be
Acceptable to him. Let's notice verse 17 chapter 5 and verse 17
It says on this account stop being unreasonable, but he perceiving what the will of Jehovah is
We need to constantly think what would Jehovah want me to do?
Well, verse 1 and verse 2 helps us to appreciate this
It says become imitators of God as beloved children and go on walking in love just as the Christ also loved us
He gave himself up for us as an offering and a sacrifice a sweet
Fragments to God. So bottom line we need to imitate Jehovah and Jesus our sacrifices need to be acceptable
To Jehovah as was Jesus. What made Jesus so pleasing?
Well, he did everything
Way Jehovah wanted him to do in fact
He said something that we want to say one day
I always do the things pleasing to him and one day in perfection. We will be able to say that
Jesus was pleasing in his word and his deed and his actions
Well, how can we imitate Jesus and thus imitate Jehovah?
Well, let's briefly discuss three ways
first
Pray for God's Holy Spirit
When confronted with trials what did Jesus do? He did not rely on himself
He petitioned Jehovah for help. So if we're struggling with a temptation a certain fleshly weakness
It's vital that we do the same and we can also talk to the elders our loving shepherds who will pray with us and
They will definitely help us to remain faithful with words of encouragement
Number two, obey Jehovah
Completely Jesus always did things that were pleasing to his father Luke 22 42 said
Let not my will but yours take place remember. There's no substitute for obedience
We cannot be acceptable without obedience
Number three, no the scriptures well
Jesus used God's word as his authority his whole life revolved around knowing and obeying and encouraging others about God's laws
We all have busy schedules. We have work to do busy in a congregation
It's more than just trying to find time to dig deep in the God's word. We must make the time
So what do our schedules tell us about our love for Jehovah our love for his word
Do we read the Bible daily?
And if we do how much time do we take to let it sink into our mind and our heart and to meditate?
Are we content with just looking at the basics the surface or digging deep and deep below the surface?
It's vital that we train our minds and our hearts
But it takes time and it takes effort
Just as a marathon runner must devote much time and effort to his
Training to run a race in fact as we know Christians are likened to running a race and it's a race for life
Let's see what the Apostle Paul had to tell us if we go over to first Corinthians
First Corinthians chapter nine
Scripture we know very well and we'll start in verse 24
There's a few key elements that we would like to extract as we're reading these verses here Paul said
Do you know that the runners in a race all run but only one receives the prize?
Running such a way that you may win it
Now everyone competing in a contest exercises self-control in all things
There's a key of course they do not receive a crown that can perish
But one that does not perish
Therefore the way I am running is not aimlessly the way I am aiming my blows is so as not to strike
Striking the air, but I pommel my body and the footnote says
Punish strictly discipline and lead it as a slave so that after I have preached to others
I myself should not become disapproved or the footnote says disqualified somehow
So we definitely want to have self-control like a runner
We need to say no to Satan's world and yes to things that are acceptable to Jehovah and we definitely want to
Make sure that we are acceptable and never to be disapproved
Perhaps we can illustrate this in a
1994 New York City marathon. There was a young man named Hermann Silva and he ran an outstanding race
In fact, there was only a half mile to the finish line in Central Park and somehow he got distracted. He took the wrong path
Did he lose the race? Well the lead runner took over?
Well, he he got redirected. He went back on the path. He began to run faster and faster
He passed up the lead runner and he won the New York City Marathon in two seconds
What does this tell us it tells us that sometimes we can lose our focus
We can be sidetracked or we could get involved in unacceptable conduct
But allow God's word and loving shepherds to readjust our course never give up
Just a few years later after that
1997 Hermann began running again in a New York City Marathon. He thought he had this one all
In in the bag. He thought he was gonna win this race
But he started to run slower. He began to dehydrate it instead of taking just a few seconds to hydrate
He skipped that. He thought he could do it. Well, what could this tell us?
Well, we cannot afford to take shortcuts. We need to have a regular intake of spiritual food to keep pace with Jehovah's
Organization. We do this by what the commenters told us today
That is a regular intake of God's word and meditation as we run the Christian course the race for life
Remember, it's not the speed. It's the direction. That's what matters the most
I mean, we always run it in such a way that is acceptable to Jehovah